Welcome to the first session of this track today.
My name is Chad Gaholic.
I come from Protocols for Publishers, which you might
have heard of.
I'm not going to spend a bunch of time introducing people.
We're going to get right into the talks as fast as
possible.
But I just wanted to take a quick temperature check of the
room to find out who here works in media and journalism.
All right.
And so is everybody else mostly technology folks?
I'm assuming.
Yes.
Okay.
Excellent.
That's just good.
So we can kind of temper the commentary for the room.
Today in this room, basically for the rest of the day, this
is the media and civics track.
We're going to concentrate for these next few sessions this morning
on creators.
So there's many different sessions back to back.
I hope you stick around.
But first, I'm going to turn it over to our first
speaker, Justin Bank.
Thanks so much, Chad.
Cool.
Good morning.
Can everyone hear me?
Okay.
Cool.
Thank you.
With everyone in that room for Erin's presentation of that essay,
that was wildly inspiring.
I am so thankful to be here.
I am going to try to flow behind her elegance.
This can be a very different kind of talk.
We're going to kind of get a little more to the
nitty gritty.
So I have a presentation that I'm going to walk through.
I am a native New Yorker.
I can speak very quickly.
I will try to be mindful of that and slow down my
register, to borrow a phrase, but I will also speed up to
kind of get certain points.
I'm going to just aggressively ask anyone here to stop me,
pause me, ask me to go deeper.
We're on a Saturday.
Like, you know, it's wonderful to be a convening like
this.
And I felt this energy.
I was fortunate to be here yesterday with some groups and the
day before.
I'm here to follow the mandate of let's build, let
's do things.
So if people have questions or things to dial into, this presentation
is kind of meant to be a bit of like a can
you get Oh, there you go better.
Yes.
So my goal here is to kind of present what I know
from the field of journalism and hopefully kind of offer it up
to folks from the worlds of technology of product of anyone else
who might be your governance, but hopefully kind of get towards building
things together more than anything else.
So my name is Justin Bank.
I am the founder of a new entity called the Independent Journal
ism Atlas.
That's our logo.
We're quite proud of.
We launched seven weeks ago in Miami at the night media forum.
These are my two co-founders, Ryan Kellett and Liz
Kelly Nelson.
If I can do a little bragging real quick, the three
of us met at the Washington Post 15 years ago.
I was in charge of something called audience development.
Can I ask anybody in the room?
Has anybody heard the phrase audience development before?
Cool.
And it's so funny that it dovetails with journalism.
So those of us who worked in the field of journalism in
the last 10, 15 years, I was very fortunate to be at
the Washington Post 15 years and we kind of started doing this
kind of stuff and eventually goes through the whole industry of like
saying, well, you know, like we make journalism.
We know every day we make the news.
We publish it out.
We broadcast it out.
What does it mean to actually get people's attention?
For years, people were able to publish things and the distribution mechanism,
whether it was a, you know, physical relic that was put
on people's doorsteps or delivered in their mailboxes, or
it was broadcast across spectrum in a matter of ways, you kind
of could just presume, well, out it goes.
Someone's kind of figured it out.
For the people constructing the news inside the newsrooms, whether they
are reporters kind of working in a city, a newsroom, or
whether they are foreign correspondent filing dispatches, to think about what
it means for them to gather the information and then get it
out to folks kind of in that product sense was a wildly
new idea 15 years ago.
And so the three of us meet at the Washington Post around
2010 doing that kind of work.
That's very blog era internet, right?
Liz actually was the celebrity blogger for the Washington Post in
2010.
That's how we met her.
She worked for a product called Celebritology.
And so she would every day put up five, seven, 12 blog
posts about whatever's kind of going in Celebritology world.
It was that version of internet.
Ryan and I were on the first version of an audience team
at a newsroom.
Fast forward to today, all three of us spent 20 years working
these places, you know, our bios are kind of on there.
I'll just say, you know, in today's context, Liz has
an amazing project called Project C Project Creator.
In Project Creator, Liz in the last year and a half has
just like a mouse and butter, churns herself this amazing
community of people who are independent journalism creators, building their own products,
building their own business models, solopreneurs, small teams.
It's an amazing kind of community of folks.
It's Liz's work, kind of primarily.
Ryan recently finished out a Neiman Fellowship at Harvard studying
Creator Economy, getting very kind of academic about it, rolling off of
a great tenure at Axios, where he was trying to figure
out that Axios model of smart brevity.
How do you take that to the local communities?
That was kind of Ryan's last project.
I was recently the managing editor at the Washington Post, actually with
my friend and colleague Lauren Sacks, who's here, who will
be up here later to speak, working on video strategy, design strategy,
visuals writ large for the newsroom, as well as audience strategy,
which is kind of more of my background.
And that background kind of took me to some interesting places at
moments in time.
I mean, in short, I worked at these places and watched them
burn, isn't a provocative way to say it.
Let's just say it's smaller.
It's maybe different way to kind of say it as well.
The real takeaway, hopefully, is that word audience on that screen, which
kind of just captures like what my role has been for across
20 years at these places and the different things I've kind
of seen.
So I want to dial into this one, just really interesting anecdote.
I was at the Washington Post in 2011.
I was SEO editor.
To my knowledge, I was the first SEO editor in American news
room.
I know other folks who are doing stuff more from like the
marketing side of things.
And when I joined, it was amazing kind of like learning as
I went to be like, okay, you know, I have this job.
I kind of, you know, BS my way into this.
What does this mean?
How do I help a news publisher every day kind of get
their information out there?
I've been there for a year or so when the Edward
Snowden story happened.
Does everybody remember?
Cool.
And just real briefly, right?
To remind ourselves, you know, a government-placed whistleblower,
as this information breaks it out.
It's, you know, one of the most seminal stories of
our lifetimes that, you know, this person with bravery and
a lot of other stuff kind of going on reveals their story.
The Washington Post and the Guardian were the two newspapers.
We got that information first.
When I was sitting in the Washington Post newsroom, we knew
there was a big story happening.
You know, newsrooms are complicated.
Any institution you work in, any kind of organization, right?
There are different nodes and networks and layers, kind of what's
going on over there.
When this story happens, Marty Baron, our historically, you know, incredible like
visionary editor who handles like big, you know, news stories.
His office has lots of senior editors buzzing into it and it
has the investigative reporters going in.
If you work in a newsroom, you kind of learn to
follow the foot traffic.
You can kind of figure out something's happening here.
This, you know, if you see a bunch of sport reporters going
in a certain direction, you can kind of presume maybe there's
a, you know, game kind of going on.
If you see a bunch of investigative reporters constantly going to Marty
's office with growing kind of rapidity for a couple days,
you're thinking, okay, like something's going to happen over here.
At one point in time, we later learned there was this air-
gapped computer that Bart Gilman, the reporter working on this,
had put into a room that only people who were at certain
clearance could go into.
Because we kind of moved further with audience development, our social editor
was allowed to read the story, which was actually newer for us
in 2011 for TJ to go in and read the story and
kind of know what to do.
So we published the story.
It's going great.
You know, it's actually days of stories kind of ripp
ling out.
There's kind of feedback loops of like, we have this information.
Will another person give us more information?
That's how the news breaks out.
As this is happening, stories are doing great, but we're noticing
this trend that like by the afternoon, the story is buried in
Google News.
And so in 2011, here we are publishing scoop after scoop.
The Guardian is publishing scoop after scoop.
And by two in the afternoon, you go to Google News and
the Huffington Post is there or BuzzFeed is
there.
And we had kind of learned a few tricks along the way.
One trick was what we called self-aggregation or what
we would internally joke, we'd call them SEO bombs.
I'm seeing and nodding.
Can I ask, have you had this experience in newsrooms?
We'll get to that in a second.
So on the right hand side over here, God, I wish I
could have found the original like screenshots I had from years ago,
but we had a 22 year old, you know, like junior reporter
who was fabulous.
Max was a great, great reporter.
But after a couple of days, I said to Marty, you know,
the traffic that, you know, the audience is coming in, but we
're losing the afternoon.
We've done this, this trick.
We've done this like self aggregation, the search bomb where
we literally have a file ready to go.
We, we published the story in the morning, just like any newspaper
would because it had to go in the morning's paper.
By the afternoon, there's the algorithms are looking for that fresh
story.
We'd say, you know, we see the aggregators beating us.
What if we just aggregate ourselves and kind of did something.
Max earned friends stories about, um, about Edward Snowden, about the
prism, uh, program were as widely read as the original reporting.
Now it was a pass through.
We, you know, I don't show the rest of this page,
which is literally just like a couple of sentences and a link
to it.
But we had to contort our product to compete with algorithms
or to compete on algorithms to get people to our stories, which
is the story of journalism over the last 10, 15, 20, I
don't even know how many years to, you know, put this
thing in here.
This is just my story.
This is the places I've been the moments in time.
The New York times, which I got to in 2014 at that
point in time, I got there actually just in time for the
first adaption of Snapchat, which was like dozens of people working
really hard to figure out how do we take this fuls
ome product 180 stories a day?
I forgot the number, 27,000 words or so.
The amount of information that would take it an average human reader
eight and a half hours to kind of get through, which would
be on Snapchat.
I actually think the times broadly speaking, I had really positive experiences
there of like when we launched the daily, I was involved in
that project, but hearing the editors involved saying, what's the New
York times sound like was a great provocation.
I think of like, what are we like?
What are we good at the New York times?
We're good at gathering information.
We're good at storytelling.
We're good at like, you know, sourcing, but what's
the new things sound for them, right?
To turn into a podcast company.
I think they've been wildly successful at it to show you
a less than a positive experience I had in this idea of
transformation, product development.
I was an NPR for the years on the slide over
here.
I found myself for a long time thinking here.
I'm an NPR and I was seen as like a
newspaper guy, which was very funny to me to spend these years
at the post and the times is like Mr.
Digital guy.
Here I am at the broadcaster being the newspaper guy.
I mean, it took me months to figure out why NPR,
most people here are familiar with the, uh, the American, uh, you
know, public broadcasting system has a series of amazing, uh, uh, radio
broadcast programs.
There's a series of amazing podcasts.
If you go to their website, it's filled with news articles
that look like newspaper articles.
They're inverted pyramids that, you know, they have the facts
at the top.
The kind of story goes down roughly 600 words to 1500 words.
First, I didn't think much of it, but as I kind
of spent more time inside the organization, I thought this is interesting.
Like this place has been around for 50 years.
People write radio scripts.
Scripts are very different than stories.
They're a lot more narrative.
They kind of have more voice in it.
And it took me months to kind of understand they did this
because they hired newspaper people to make their website for them.
For that strange reason, NPR.
org, Tyler, you're shaking your head because you spent time there
as well, right?
The amount of time you spent in this place thinking, why did
these people whose genius is getting information, whose genius is storytelling?
And NPR specifically, their genius is audio storytelling.
They can kind of find sound, that rustling in the background
and the right voice is that kind of in combination.
Like to take from Aaron's amazing presentation she just gave, what
's the register of conveying information?
NPR, from an audio perspective, right?
Legendary.
Why were they making newspaper articles on websites?
You know, it's confusing me.
So I spent a couple of years saying, why can't these
radio scripts, which are very narrative, turn into live blogs, which was
my great challenge there.
Eventually, we did it, which was amazing.
But again, so much retrofitting, so much of like, what
is this institution doing in the first place towards where could it
kind of go afterwards?
And so that's my experience in those different places.
I mean, the real big takeaway is whatever publisher I was at
or other people may have been at certain points in time, we
're looking at 20 plus years of these institutions being filled with
wildly talented people at gathering information, at storytelling, constantly trying to figure
out how to get that information to people through an aggregation
era that just destroyed them.
It destroyed the industry, it destroyed so many different kind of disciplines
within the industry.
I could get lost down that part.
It's a lot of trauma.
But the one thing I want to convey to this space is
just to know in the journalism industry, in the media industry, that
trauma is real.
The people who raise their hands could all think of the people
who are not in this room, who are at other conferences, or
trying to do other projects right now, who still lament the fact
that they can't work on their story for X amount of
time, or that there's not as much love of the craft
of this or that.
But the takeaway, I hope for this conference kind of going forward
is the concept of survivors of the embers of like what
's left from this.
And I want to talk about very specific survivors.
I have a few more to go through this presentation.
One, Lauren, sitting right over there, will be up here later to
talk a little bit about her journey with local news international, her
six month old company, Lauren, is that fair?
Yeah, six month old independent journalism company that is doing fabulous things.
And Dave, who's not here, is kind of the face of
it with those googly eyes.
And we'll talk a little bit more about Lauren's experience
kind of later today.
I'll say one thing about Lauren's experience.
This is a chart I'm very happy to show off here.
Lauren, Dave and Micah, three co-founders of LNI,
leave the Washington Post six months ago or so, where in broad
strokes, they Dave is the face of the TikTok channel.
He's known as Washington Post TikTok guy.
He's kind of like his nickname, his persona.
There's a YouTube channel.
This is one look at a competitive kind of benchmarking of
what happened to the Washington Post's YouTube channels.
You can kind of see the things doing their things.
You can tell when Dave left, you can see what Dave built
and you can see what happened here, right?
Which is the audience went with him.
Like before platforms, there was a need for institutions to be the
platform, to be the distribution mechanism.
There are these slides that I've used in other contexts.
Like I have a 12-year-old and a 10-year-old
at home.
I've gone to a couple career days where I've tried
to explain I'm a journalist.
I'm an audience development journalist.
Let me explain to you middle schoolers and elementary school kids
what that means.
To talk to gen alpha kids about what it means to work
in a newspaper, I've used slides like this to say, this
is what a newspaper is.
And everyone agrees.
One of the reasons I've loved Dave for so many years
is he's leaning.
This is Washington Post TikTok guy.
He'll use the newspaper emoji to convey kind of what he
is.
That, you know, the emoji actually does the work of explaining what
this artifact was pre-internet in a certain way.
And this is a slide I love showing the kids because it
's something we've talked about in newsrooms for a generation
now.
It's like for so long, you're going to train and
train look like this.
And at a certain point in time, you're going to train
and it looked like this.
When I was at the New York Times, you used to talk
about the breakfast table dynamic.
Did you ever talk about that in your travels?
The concept was that for generations and generations, people would go to
breakfast tables and what would they see in front of them versus
what do they see in front of them now?
Or was it the Times just as we were putting the pay
wall up and figuring out that breakfast table dynamic is going away
and we have to grab that brand equity.
And I think the Times has done an amazing job of doing
exactly that, grabbing that brand equity because now, you know, this is,
there is no more breakfast table like that.
And so, you know, the takeaway hope from the spiel, part
of the spiel is just that the individual journalists, those are
the atomic units creating information.
And Aaron's talk, I think, again, beautifully lays out there of
like, who are these nodes and networks to kind of move on
to a protocol in kind of a certain way.
It's not just aspirational.
It's not just anecdotal.
This is research that Reuters has been working towards for a
few years and the last few months, kind of continually sharpening
the version of displaying this thing to look at here is the
purple and the blue and the ages, right?
Who do younger audiences trust?
Do they know to trust the brand or the brand, the individual
behind it, the atomic unit is the individual behind it?
And so I'm eager to tell a couple stories about individuals
who are creating great journalism on the internet.
Yeah, you're Casey fan?
I was thinking Casey the whole time.
He's got a really good case study here.
He's an amazing case study.
I mean, can I ask why were you thinking of him?
Well, so I work in the artificial intelligence industry and we're
in like kind of a, we're very new-ish thing and
it's really systematically pushed, but like, like the way that like,
it's kind of like been out of reach almost it seems
in my mind that like, kind of like the way that like
a community is, and Casey is our guy.
So like, you read Platformer.
I read Platformer.
Yeah, cool.
Like, you know, I saw him on Market Street once.
He's huge.
He's a tall man.
Yeah, very tall.
Very kind man too.
Very tall, kind man.
Yes.
Yeah.
But he's probably the best example.
I mean, like what you're describing is like...
Yeah.
It's about Casey.
Exactly.
So Casey, did you start following Casey's work when he was
at The Verge as a reporter?
Yeah.
So you knew him from there, right?
Casey is amazing and I mean, we could spend hours talking about
Casey and I would in other contexts.
The takeaways for this conference hopefully are Casey's an individual human
reporter, right?
He was at an institution five years ago.
He very thoughtfully, I had to borrow a phrase from that
time, decoupled from The Verge for the first year
or two of Platformer.
And I think even still, you know, maybe there's a gap
for a little while.
He licensed back.
So Casey is now a publisher on Ghost at this point in
time.
He had a substack journey, which we won't get lost
down that one, but he has moved platforms multiple times and his
audience follows him.
Now he is, you know, one of one, right?
Like I believe he might be the best living journalist alive.
You know, I just think what he's doing is so important
in his ability to run a business.
I think Casey's amazing in a million different ways.
For this room, you know, I almost took a mastodon
screenshot.
I didn't know if that would be uncouth or not.
There was a protocol conference, right?
All open interoperability and we're bridging in every
direction.
Around late December, early January, there was a very special episode of
hard fork and search engine where they launched the fork a verse
as a mastodon instance.
I was taking a walk, listening, you know, my mind's been
going towards protocol.
I just had met Ted and Chad, like weeks earlier, like I
'm kind of reading up on things and to hear them say
like, fuck it, we're going to do it.
We're going to move people to an instance and tell this
very special episode of buying the server space.
And then to go online and be on a number 100 and
then to watch in the weeks go by, 10,000, 12,000,
15,000 people go to the instance.
We are watching like the Pied Piper dynamic of what
does it mean for a journalist to take their audience with them
to a protocol-based place.
Casey is that example for sure.
But there's so many other amazing examples.
I mean, again, you know, I'm going to be a little
mindful of time.
I'm coming back up here later with Lauren.
And it's going to be so interesting, I think, to hear
Lauren's story about running a business.
What does it mean to run a business?
What does she need to run a business?
What does it mean to find audience?
What does it mean to do journalism on the internet today without
all the legacy stuff of the newspapers and the radio and all
that?
Does anybody here know Kyla Scanlon?
I love, you know, she's amazing.
She is, she's a phenom.
I mean, I don't, you know, I, she is a younger
journalist.
I'll just say, I think she is very early career is
h, but in a certain kind of years, my God, she is
everywhere and she's good at everywhere.
Like this quote that I found of hers on a substack
note captures some of her genius in a certain way on the
right.
I knew I made this slide this morning or last night, like
just on LinkedIn in the last couple of days, she's on
LinkedIn talking about her appearance with like marketplace on like a tour
as well as what's her other note over here.
She has a new essay on her substack, which is between
some of her New York times pieces, modern journalism or these individuals.
Now she again is a phenom, like the highest level of,
I think like my God, she can manage all these platforms and
she has a small team.
Like she is just extraordinary, but there are so many folks like
this out there.
So I am the, uh, one of the three co-founders
of the journalism atlas.
com or journalism atlas.
com, the independent journalism atlas.
We launched six, seven weeks ago.
We're still figuring ourselves out in a lot of ways.
The thing we know we're doing is we are making a
list of good independent journalism.
Uh, there's lots of amazing journals in the world.
There's lots of amazing institutions that need your support as well,
but independent journalism has always been around going back to the days
of like zines and, you know, AM radio and all sorts
of other places.
The internet for a long time hasn't allowed people to publish
in certain ways, but at this moment in the timeline, there's
so much important independent journalism.
There's so many people moving from institutions to independence.
There's so many people who are independent who can kind of
like robustly armor up themselves into businesses.
There is a live moment in this ecosystem.
So these are two screenshots of our product right now.
Our product is a prototype.
We are just trying to kind of get in the market and
show people how much great independent journalism this is.
These are two views of a bubble view of like a geo
look and then a topic based that kind of also do platforms
as well.
Um, the takeaway that, you know, it's probably the number one
thing I want to say in this conference is as I meet
more people who come from other industries who are working on things
and thinking of the protocols application to what you can build.
The idea of federated media is happening and has been happening.
Just, it doesn't have that word.
Uh, Kyla and, um, Casey, uh, and Lauren and the team
at LNI, they are building federated networks.
They are making choices to publish a little bit more on YouTube.
A little bit less on Tik Tok.
They're Kyle is making choices to be ever present everywhere.
Casey's making very specific choices to be with certain newsletter publishers
he believes in and to build partnerships with the New York times
for a podcast or to license back to the verge.
They are federated in all these different ways, but they have
this other language and the one I'll kind of draw your
most attention to are the idea of not all eggs in one
basket.
This is the reality that creators are living in right now that
I hope anyone building can have think about that's where they
are is no eggs in every basket.
And then I ask you to think a little bit about this
phrase that I've been banding about the idea of a
poly platform strategy to survive.
You know, their version of being the kelp is like their
fronds have to show up in a few different places while
they figure out kind of where the anchor space is going to
be.
Um, you know, there's this amazing reporter, Marisa Cabas.
Is anybody here in this room?
If you guys are on blue sky, I love the hands.
Amazing, amazing, amazing.
Marisa again could spend hours talking about just her as a
use case, another amazing use case of an independent journalist.
So this quote that's up here is from an associate press
story about her maybe a month or two into a Trump to
administration.
So Marisa had this great scoop.
She publishes it out.
Um, you know, it's an amazing story, right?
Like a woman in Brooklyn who is a great independent reporter who
gets access to this and kind of off she goes.
And this quote is just amazing, right?
Her stomach was not the fact that like she was like living
through this thing of like, I'm in this apartment.
I have this information.
There is no legal team behind me.
There is no institution.
Like she just kind of had to do it and she did
it.
And you know, and actually this had this screenshot over here, that
's not the scoop from a year ago.
That's another scoop she had a month ago or so she
has now turned into like in a great another case study to
think about in this room at this convening you, this is
probably the most prominent scoop machine journalist active on blue sky.
I don't know that I would put into their name out
there and she's building this kind of business primarily off blue
sky.
Like it's, you know, now she she's building her monet
ization off of beehive or her newsletter is, but the
fact that she has kind of done what she's done in
this ecosystem with these communities, her funnel is blue sky to be
ehive right now.
And she's able to do stuff like this to move her
subscriber count up, which gives her a business, which gives her a
livelihood, which allows her to kind of keep creating journalism.
And I hope this room, this community can think about Marisa
as a very tangible example right now, not just because of her,
because kind of what's being built around her in a certain
way.
So this is a product that just launched three or four days
ago.
Has anybody seen this news of trust fund?
Amazing.
So Michael, uh, Jar Jar is a, um, a media executive.
He was at the FT for a while.
I know, um, he's been kind of ruminating on
this for a few months.
We've been in touch with him from the Independent Journalism
Atlas.
We were in touch with him a few months ago as he
was starting.
We consider him a very big fellow traveler.
He gave us a heads up a week or two ago and
said, Hey, it's getting kind of real here.
And thank you for launching.
As I build my tech stack, it's been nice to have
your database like publicly out there.
I ingested it and I figured out affinity scores.
Like I'm just helping add, uh, towards my, like, uh, subscription
bundle creating tool.
What his tool is, is it's a little smaller here is
he's allowing independent journalists to sign up.
If they're on beehive or sub stack, he kind
of has that handshake kind of figured out.
And if you're at beehive or sub stack, you
can sign on to his platform.
If you're an independent publisher of newsletters, you can
find other people like you, or, and, or you can go on
and be like, these are the two or three I want to
work with.
And the screenshot kind of shows how, if you're an independent
publisher, you can say we're a bundle.
Now we'll all be a little cheaper if you buy our
bigger bundle, which solves for a problem.
I think people have seen for a long time of like, well,
I understood paying for the one bundle over there.
Now there's like 75 independence.
I love Casey.
I love Marisa.
How many independent subscriptions should I manage over here?
So I think Michael is in a great direction doing this thing.
Now he's off protocol.
He's building the software in a different way, but an amazing
example to bring here because he's building with somebody who is
on protocol.
And you know, the idea of like who's where and what
they're doing is that the guts of what I'd love
to work on here.
Like in these next couple of days, this is another visualization of
like what we're building at the Atlas.
Again, we're all prototypes.
At this point we are, you know, showing our, you know, our
laundry over here.
Like, uh, I, all three of us are not technical to, you
know, lightly kind of say something here.
Um, 15 years ago or so, when I was a fact check.
org in the beginning of my career as a fact check reporter
in 2006, seven, eight, at one point in time, I submitted a
new website.
I downloaded some WordPress software.
I watched some YouTube videos.
I FTP'd up some stuff.
I dreamweaver was truly how I learned how to internet
and then ended up these cool jobs, right?
It wasn't my job to build anymore.
I just, hopefully it was a good enough colleague to the, uh,
Tyler's the world and saying like, Hey, I think this, can
we build that?
So to kind of come back to a like Claude Kir
scher powered world and kind of build these tools, we're
prototyping in real time, but our actual idea and work we
think is the curation is the finding of the journal survey
here.
And so this is just another like array visualization of like, at
this point we have 1165 people publicly on the website and
we're kind of showing here's the, you know, where they
're living.
They're on these platforms, not on these platforms.
They're publishing this kind of content.
Um, we have like, I'm kind of showing a little something
on this slide of like, we have thousands more who were kind
of like in a catalog.
We're just not in a rush to keep publishing everything immediately.
We're trying to figure out like how to thoughtfully do
it.
Should we be launching in more cities or should we be doing
more globally?
Should we be doing this platform versus that platform?
Should we work with a certain platform partner who, as we publish,
we'll try to get more visibility for them on other platforms
or figure out their monetization hooks.
And we are very live kind of in those conversations right now.
These are roughly the three groups we're talking to trying to
figure out like between philanthropy publishers and platforms.
There's intermediation to do on behalf of creators as coh
orts.
Some were very actively have a couple of dozen, let's say
creators who want to work with a certain publisher in a certain
way or work with a platform in a certain way.
Some as we're kind of doing BD almost like as
a ghost like entity to say, well, if we did something like
this platform X or publisher Y, could you work with people in
a way?
We are kind of really just trying to like conceptually kind
of proof of concept over here.
And we're looking for anyone else like Michael, a fellow traveler
who wants to build, who wants to fund, who wants to operate
this kind of more like multimodal network node kind of
existence.
This is, I guess, the best expression I think of what we
are in this space.
I think we're a lot of things in a lot of
different rooms, but to this room, to this conference, what I think
our project offers is that we're committed to making a long,
long list and database.
We have a thousand, you know, plus already.
We see the path to three, four, five thousand, frankly.
As time goes on, as I understand what we're able to
do with software and with like the seeds of our curation,
if we imagine a world where we can actually go around the
globe, look across all platforms as they are today, I think there
are hundreds of thousands of high quality, I'll call them journalism
creators, but not journalists necessarily.
My co-founder Ryan, when he was at Neiman, he kind
of did some work in thinking this through and said, you know,
as I look around, there's too many people who don't
identify as journalists, but they're doing journalism.
And so last year for Neiman Lab, he wrote a thoughtful
piece.
It's journalism, not journalists.
We are following that kind of like conceptual framework over here.
So this is some language that we spent some time thinking through.
And as we go through, our database has some things kind of
hiding in plain sight, like Joe Rogan's on there.
I think, I don't want to say it's provocative, but
we do want to say that if people are going to interview
people, newsmakers, and put the information on display, just like Barbara
Walters, Oprah, you know, the hot wings, like, I don't
know if Hot Ones is on our list or not, but
I would put them on there.
People who are giving a platform to information of people who can
influence other people's lives is journalism of a certain stripe.
The language we love the most, that's been the most helpful
to us when there's been edge cases, we're kind of
curious what we're doing, is the word missional, which is
hiding in that first paragraph.
It's missional work that advances information and understanding for a
community.
Hearing Aaron speak a second ago, again, I get chills just thinking
about it again.
That's the community we want to be in.
We love journalism.
We love the tradecraft.
I've spent my career in newsrooms loving the stories about
like what happened when, you know, I lived through the Edward Snow
den stuff, but to be in the newsrooms where the pending
on papers happened or the deep throat stuff like to hear these
stories is amazing.
But at this moment in time, with the timeline we're going
forward in, we really need to think about the people doing it
today, like Marisa, sitting at that kitchen table and how does
she get source information?
How does she get validation?
How does she get monetization kind of against her in a
certain way?
So these are the folks we're talking to.
Here's another kind of shot of like a prototype thing we
're kind of building out.
We have dozens of these things of just saying, well, we have
the data as is publicly.
We have more data behind the scenes.
Anyone here who wants to talk about by geo, by topic, by
platform.
We have 18 columns of like metadata.
We're kind of cultivating behind the scenes.
We are thrilled to work with anybody.
And we also have active communities that we can go query and
ask them qualitative questions.
How are you making money?
Who's the third person you would hire?
What tech stack would you want in a certain way?
We are very eager to build in public alongside people and just
keep building prototypes and other.
I mean, we've kind of figured out in the end, you
know, I think I have this on this slide kind of what
we are.
We are figuring out our product market fit where we've kind
of gone seven weeks in as we're realizing real clearly.
We do think there's a B2C thing here.
Like people should hopefully find this thing.
And if you individually want to find great creators, amazing.
But the real value we have is our relationships institutions.
We're looking to figure out this B2B thing of
like any entity, whether you are a startup or a long running
institution, whatever your monetization hooks are, if you need access to
high quality information, those are the people we want to talk to.
And if you're building that direction, we want to talk alongside
you as well.
And I kind of want to land on this to say, like,
you know, actually I kind of grabbed it when I was in
the room.
I put this there.
I just was sitting gobsmacked with Aaron's eleg
ance and just thought, well, if we need to, you know, anchor
networks and humans, this was the slide I built was my version
of that.
Like the community I come from of independent journalists and creators of
people constructing journalism, people who wouldn't even know they're in
my community, but we're doing it, but I want to champion
them.
These are the three things they need.
And so anything we can do in these next couple days to
figure out the audience portability question, the discoverability coordination questions,
and the questions of community management and monetization tools.
Kevin Kelly's thousand true fans wired essay rings deeply in this
community.
We'd love to talk and kind of be community with you
guys as well about that.
So I'll just end with this and say, like, you know,
um, I've been saying this that Jen and Tez kind
of came online here.
I can't believe how structurally aligned the work and mission
of journalism is to protocol-based thinking.
Our institutions have just been turning what they've turned into.
Journalists are finding a way through networks and nodes.
I'm just like tickled with the concept of the people
who are doing the deep-seated work on what the software
means to build in that direction, how aligned it is with the
humans creating the journalism are.
That's what I'd love to talk about here.